Part 1 - The Brief

In this video I am gonna share with you a brief instruction to AspnetBoilerPlate framework but this time around we are looking more at the Frontend side of things.
In the past video we looked at the APIs and Backend side of the framework. in the contrary, This time I am going to be talking about more about Angular that the frontend implementation.

Part 2 - The Intro Who Am I?

Hey, this is Eduardo Santana here, I have been doing software development for many years now, and I wanted to create this series of videos to help you, if you are student or a new software developer, who is looking to create a new web application and you wanted to follow a clear path and follow best practices of object oriented programming.

The main idea is to use this AspnetBoilerPlate framework as start up point for your new web application which will give you the best practices and will save you time on boiler plate code.

Because at the end of the day, in every application there there some repetitive task that you have to do over and over again. and This Framework will give you solid start up point that you can rely on.

In this specific video we are going to are going to talk about:

First we are going to talk about who is framework for? does it work for you? and after we are gonna talk about some of the most relevant time saving features that this framework is offering.

Now, lets move on to the Frontend side of things.

Part 3 - Content?
Deliver the Content or presentation

Part 4 - Optional Bonus
Over-deliver

Party 5 - Call to Action
What they are going to do next?
After this video there will be a coming video about the demonstration on how to create your new project using this framework.
And also, how automatically generate some boiler plate. so stick around and If you finding value in this video, give it a thumbs-up. It really makes a huge difference.

---

# Who is this for? On the Frontend?

- When it comes to the Frontend of AspnetBoilerPlate, this framework is for you, if you are looking for Rapid Application development and familiar with Angular or Vue.js or React.

This framework will give you the the option to download a complete project which will have the login page, tenant page, multi-tenancy page and users and roles management page.

So, lets go and see the download page, so we can see the different options when it comes to frontend.

https://aspnetboilerplate.com/Templates

I am more familiar with Angular therefore I will be talking a more closer look to Angular in the coming videos, but as you can see the Template is available to be downloaded with Vue.js , React frameworks as well.

Going back to our presentation, we can see that on the current AspnetBoilerPlate framework is using:

- Angular15+
- NSwag 13 (https://github.com/RicoSuter/NSwag)
- TypeScript 4.8
- Jasmine 4.5

Now, let's see the different features.

---

# Features? On the Frontend?

When it comes to the Frontend we have:

- Token-Based Authentication with Jwt Bearer is there by default out of the box.
- Multi-Tenancy management out of the box.
- Multi-Language Support with L pipe is right there.
- Proxy Service with Static Data Types generated by NSwag.

I personally think the most relevant and important of those features is the NSwag implementation. that is why, I wanted to talk about this one.

---

# Why do we need NSwag?... brief about JavaScript application.

Let me start by saying, In a normal JavaScript web application we need some sort of access the backend APIs in some way.

Most of the time we do use HTTP request to access the backend information.

and for those HTTP request we mostly go for using libraries like Axios or could use the JavaScript vanilla XMLHttpRequest class.

But more specifically in Angular we want to create a Proxy Service class that will hold that will contain all the backend communication related stuff in there.

So we are going to use a TypeScript Proxy Service that will expose the backend APIs as methods, we are going to see what it means.

Let s look at the figure next slide:

---

# Why do we need NSwag? in Angular code.

Again in from your Angular code you will have ProxyService class which allows you to do HTTP request and you will get access to the Backend APIs end information.

How is it going to work? how do you create this ProxyService with static DataTypes?

So, this Proxy Service will be generated by NSwag,

The way it works is that NSwag will take your Swagger url and from there it will take the Open API specifications, and then it is going to generate your TypeScript Proxy Service for your application.

I know there is more to it, but we are going see in action in the coming videos, for now, this is a simple over view of how this is actually works.

If you want to see more about Nswag you can see the github page: https://github.com/RicoSuter/NSwag, I m going to leave in video description.

Let go back to the presentation.

---

# Features? On the Frontend? Example

It is very easy to get up up and running with a complete angular application with login page, users and roles management page, Jwt Token out of the box.

Let s go to the demo page again, we we can see how easy it is to start a new application.

- https://aspnetboilerplate.com/Pages/Documents/Zero/Startup-Template-Angular?searchKey=angular

Lets go to see the page: DEMO the page...

After the demo. . .

# Thank you

I want to leave this video there, If you finding value in this video, give it a thumbs-up. and subscribe for the next videos.

We are going to demo the backend and create a new Swagger API, using PostgreSQL database and EntityFramework.

After that in another video we are gonna show one Angular application and the Student Entity with permissions.

And finally, we are going to see how I do generate the code for a new Entity Class for this Framework.

See you next time.
